A Chip On Your Shoulder
Being angry about something that happened in the past.


A Dime a Dozen
Something that’s abundant in quantity and/or cheap; something that’s easily acquired.


A Fool And His Money Are Soon Parted
It’s easy for someone acting foolish with their money to lose it.


A Piece of Cake
An action or task that is simple to do.


All Bark And No Bite
Someone is who full of talk, but has no action behind their words.


All Greek To Me
When something is extremely difficult to understand due to how complex it is; unintelligible.


An Apple a Day Keeps The Doctor Away
Eating an apple (or fruits and vegetables) daily can help to keep the doctor away.


An Arm And a Leg
Something that is very pricey; expensive.


An Elephant Never Forgets
Someone with a good memory.


As Busy As a Bee
Someone that has a lot of work to do; they are busy, like a bee. 

Back To Square One
To go back to the beginning; back to the drawing board.


Back To The Drawing Board
Starting over again on a new design from a previously failed attempt.


Barking Up The Wrong Tree
To make a wrong assumption about something.


Beating a Dead Horse
To bring up an issue that has already been resolved.


Beating Around The Bush
Someone who is beating around the bush is someone who avoids the main point.


Beauty Is In The Eye Of The Beholder
What is nice looking to one person might be ugly to another; people’s opinions can differ on what is beautiful.


Better Safe Than Sorry
It’s better to choose the safer option than a riskier one that you may later regret.


Between a Rock And a Hard Place
Being faced with two difficult choices, where neither are satisfactory.


Birds Of a Feather Flock Together
People tend to associate with others who share similar interests or values.


Break The Ice
Breaking down a social stiffness.


Bull In a China Shop
Someone who breaks things due to clumsiness.


Burst Your Bubble
Giving someone news or information that will disappoint them.

Calm Before The Storm
A peaceful period of time that comes before a more difficult and/or more busy period.


Check, Please
1. A request for a bill.  2. Being in an uncomfortable situation that one wants to leave.


Close But No Cigar
Coming close to a successful outcome only to fall short at the end.


Cold Turkey
Quitting a bad habit suddenly.


Crocodile Tears
To express sorrow in an insincere way.


Cry Over Spilled Milk
It’s useless to worry about things that have already happened and cannot be changed.


Cry Wolf
Someone who is lying.


Cup Of Joe
A ‘cup of joe’ is an American nickname for a cup of coffee.


Curiosity Killed The Cat
Typically said to indicate that any further investigation into a situation may lead to harm.


Cut The Mustard
To cut the mustard is to meet a required standard; to meet expectations.


Cut To The Chase
Getting directly to the point, leaving out all of the unnecessary details.


Don’t Count Your Chickens Before They Hatch
Do not rely on something you are not sure of.


Don’t Look a Gift Horse In The Mouth
When you receive a gift from someone, do not be ungrateful.


Down And Out
1. A boxer who has been knocked out.  2. Incapable of performing normal functions due to some reason.


Down For The Count
Someone or something that looks to be defeated, or nearly so.


Down To Earth
Practical or humble; unpretentious.


Down To The Wire
A tense situation in a competition where things are evenly matched and the outcome is going to be decided only in the last few seconds.


Drawing a Blank
Failing to recall a memory. Unable to remember something.


Drive Me Nuts
To greatly frustrate someone. ‘Nuts’ is sometimes substituted with crazy, insane, bonkers, or bananas.


Dropping Like Flies
For people to fall down ill or die in large numbers.


Easy As Pie
Something that is easy to do. A similar saying is ‘a piece of cake.’


Eat My Dust
Having confidence in a specific outcome; being almost sure about something.


Eat My Hat
Having confidence in a specific outcome; being almost sure about something.


Elephant In The Room
Ignoring a large, obvious problem or failing to address an issue that stands out in a major way.


Elvis Has Left The Building
It’s time to leave now because the show or whatever spectacle you were watching is over.


Even a Broken Clock Is Right Twice a Day
Someone considered to be unreliable can still be right about something on occasion, even if by accident.


Every Cloud Has a Silver Lining
To be optimistic, even in difficult times.


Everything But The Kitchen Sink
Including nearly everything possible.


Fight Fire With Fire
To retaliate in a similar method that was used against you.


Finger Lickin’ Good
This is a saying that’s used to describe food that tastes good.


Fish Out Of Water
Someone being in a situation that they are unfamiliar or unsuited for.


Fit As a Fiddle
Being as fit as a fiddle means to be in good health.


Flea Market
A type of bazaar where inexpensive goods are sold or bartered.


Fool Me Once, Shame On You
Recognizing that you fell for the same ruse twice, and realizing that you should have known better the second time.


Foaming At The Mouth
To be enraged; very angry.


Fool’s Gold
Iron pyrite is a worthless mineral that resembles gold.


Give a Man a Fish
It’s better to teach a person how to do something than to do that something for them.


(Go) Down The Rabbit Hole
1. A particular topic, activity, or something else that interests a person, thus they want to either see more of it or pursue it in some way for the purpose of learning more about it. (For more definitions, use the link).


Go For Broke
To risk it all, even if it means losing everything; to go all out.


Go Out On a Limb
Putting yourself in a risky situation in order to help someone, or to take an uninformed guess at something.


Goody Two-Shoes
Refers to someone who does nice things for others; a virtuous person.


Greased Lightning
An expression that’s used to describe someone or something that is very fast.


Hands Down
Anything that’s easy or has no difficulty; something that is a certainty.


Happy As a Clam
The state of being happy; feeling delighted.


Hard Pill To Swallow
Something that’s difficult to accept.


Head Over Heels
Falling deeply in love with another person.


Heads Up
Used as an advanced warning. To become keenly aware.


High And Dry
To be left behind; abandoned. Being in a helpless situation without a way to recover.


Hindsight Is 20/20
Looking back at a situation or event that occurred and having a clearer understanding of how it could have been done better.


Hit Below The Belt
A boxing term. Also often used to refer to inappropriate words, or comments that are too personal.


Hit The Nail On The Head
Saying or doing something that’s precisely correct.


Hold Your Horses
To tell someone to wait, or to stop.


Hung Out To Dry
To be abandoned by someone.




I Smell a Rat
A suspicious feeling that something is not quite right; awry.


I Spy With My Little Eye
This is a phrase that is used in a children’s guessing game.


If It Ain’t Broke, Don’t Fix It
If something is working fine, it’s probably best to not make any changes that could potentially break it.


If You Can’t Stand The Heat, Get Out Of The Kitchen
One should stop doing a task or involving themselves in certain things if they cannot handle the pressure that comes with it.


In a Pickle
Being in a difficult predicament; a mess; an undesirable situation.


In The Red
Losing money or being in debt.


It Ain’t Over Till The Fat Lady Sings
One should not assume the outcome of a situation until it reaches it’s end, because things can change.


It’s Not All It’s Cracked Up To Be
Failing to meet expectations; not being as good as people say.


It’s Not Brain Surgery
A thing that lacks complexity and is thus considered easy to do.


It’s Not Rocket Science
Something that’s simple to accomplish or understand.






Jack of All Trades, Master of None
Having suitable skill in multiple things, but not being an expert in any of them.


Jaws of Death
Being in a dangerous or very deadly situation.


Jig Is Up
For a ruse or trick to be discovered; to be caught.


Jump The Gun
Starting or doing something too soon.


Jump The Shark
The point in which a TV show is thought to be past its peak in terms of quality, generally due to something absurd being introduced.



Jam-Packed
Filled to the brim; full.


​
Jet Lag
Feeling tired after having traveled to another country via a long flight.


​
Joined At The Hip
Two people who are together a lot.


​
Joshing Me
Someone who’s joking around; kidding.

​
Jog (Someone’s) Memory
Hearing or seeing a thing that causes a person to remember something suddenly.


​
Just Desserts
Someone who receives a fitting punishment or reward for what they did.




​
Just In The Nick of Time
Arriving somewhere or doing something just before it’s too late.


​
Jump On the Band Wagon
Caring about something and supporting it only after that thing becomes successful.


​
Jumped Out of My Skin
Being terrified of something.


​
Jump to Conclusions
Making a judgement call based on little or no information.


​
Just What The Doctor Ordered
Exactly what a person wanted or needed.


Keep On Truckin’
To keep going, pressing forward; never stopping.


Keep Your Eyes Peeled
To be watchful; paying careful attention to something.


Keep Your Shirt On
To keep calm. It is said to those who are getting upset or feeling angry about something.


Knock It Out Of The Park
To do something exceptionally well.


Knock Your Socks Off
To be taken by surprise or to be impressed.


Know The Ropes
Having a familiarity or understanding of how something works.


Knuckle Down
To get serious about something.


Let Her Rip
1. Permission to start something.  2. To make a vehicle go faster.


Let The Cat Out Of The Bag
To make secret information known.


Lickety-Split
To go at a quick pace; no delaying!


Lightning Never Strikes The Same Place Twice
An unusual event or situation that is unlikely to happen again to the same person.


Like Father, Like Son
Resembling one’s parents in terms of appearance or behavior.


Like Shooting Fish In a Barrel
Something that is easy to do; an action that’s simple to accomplish.


Long In The Tooth
Someone or something that is old in age.


Love Birds
A pair of people who have a shared love for each other.


Lovey-Dovey
The affectionate stuff that people do when they are in love, such as kissing and hugging.



Make a Beeline For (Something)
To go directly towards something quickly, at a swift pace.


Making a Scene
Behaving in such a way that it disturbs the public; drawing undue attention to oneself.


Making a Mountain Out Of a Molehill
Taking a small issue and escalating it into a big problem.


Man Of Few Words
A person who does not speak a lot; someone who talks with a small amount of words.


Money Doesn’t Grow On Trees
This idiom implies that money is a resource that must be earned and is not one that’s easily acquired.


Mouth-Watering
Delicious; something, generally good, that looks or tastes appetizing.


My Cup Of Tea
Something that a person likes or finds agreeable to their tastes, e.g. this brown shirt is ‘my cup of tea.’



Neck And Neck
Something that is evenly matched, such as a competition or a comparison.

Needle In a Haystack
Something that is difficult to find.

No-Brainer
An easy choice.

No Ifs, Ands, Or Buts
Finishing a task without making any excuses.

No Questions Asked
Other than the information that is initially given, no further inquiries are to be made.

(Not) My Cup Of Tea
Something that a person does not like, e.g. this shirt is ‘not my cup of tea.’

Not The Sharpest Tool In The Shed
Someone who isn’t witty or sharp, but rather, they are ignorant, unintelligent, or senseless.


Neck And Neck
Something that is evenly matched, such as a competition or a comparison.

Needle In a Haystack
Something that is difficult to find.

No-Brainer
An easy choice.

No Ifs, Ands, Or Buts
Finishing a task without making any excuses.

No Questions Asked
Other than the information that is initially given, no further inquiries are to be made.

(Not) My Cup Of Tea
Something that a person does not like, e.g. this shirt is ‘not my cup of tea.’

Not The Sharpest Tool In The Shed
Someone who isn’t witty or sharp, but rather, they are ignorant, unintelligent, or senseless.

Par For The Course
What one would expect to happen; something normal or common.


Photo Finish
A photograph taken at the finish line. Also refers to competitions that are very close towards the end.


Playing For Keeps
Said when things are about to get serious.


Playing Possum
Pretending to be dead, or to be deceitful about something.


Pot Calling The Kettle Black
Criticizing someone for a fault, even though the criticizer is also guilty of doing the same thing.


Put a Sock In It
Asking someone to be quiet or to shut up.

Quality Time
Spending time with another to strengthen the relationship.


Quick And Dirty
Things that are fixed with great speed, but as a result, it’s probably not going to work very well.


Quick On The Draw
Performing an action with great haste.

(Quit) Cold Turkey
Stopping a bad habit suddenly.


Rain On Your Parade
To spoil someone’s fun or plans; ruining a pleasurable moment.


Raining Cats and Dogs
When it is raining heavily.


Read ‘Em and Weep
Often said by the winner in poker, as the others ‘weep’ over the loss.


Ride Him, Cowboy!
A cheer people yell, usually at rodeos when cowboys are clinging to the backs of untamed horses.


Right Off The Bat
Immediately, done in a hurry; without delay.


Right Out Of The Gate
Right from the beginning, or to do something immediately.


Ring Any Bells?
Recalling a memory; causing a person to remember something or someone.


Roll With The Punches
To tolerate or endure through unexpected and difficult things that you may encounter from time to time.


Rain On Your Parade
To spoil someone’s fun or plans; ruining a pleasurable moment.


Raining Cats and Dogs
When it is raining heavily.


Read ‘Em and Weep
Often said by the winner in poker, as the others ‘weep’ over the loss.


Ride Him, Cowboy!
A cheer people yell, usually at rodeos when cowboys are clinging to the backs of untamed horses.


Right Off The Bat
Immediately, done in a hurry; without delay.


Right Out Of The Gate
Right from the beginning, or to do something immediately.


Ring Any Bells?
Recalling a memory; causing a person to remember something or someone.


Roll With The Punches
To tolerate or endure through unexpected and difficult things that you may encounter from time to time.

Rain On Your Parade
To spoil someone’s fun or plans; ruining a pleasurable moment.


Raining Cats and Dogs
When it is raining heavily.


Read ‘Em and Weep
Often said by the winner in poker, as the others ‘weep’ over the loss.


Ride Him, Cowboy!
A cheer people yell, usually at rodeos when cowboys are clinging to the backs of untamed horses.


Right Off The Bat
Immediately, done in a hurry; without delay.


Right Out Of The Gate
Right from the beginning, or to do something immediately.


Ring Any Bells?
Recalling a memory; causing a person to remember something or someone.


Roll With The Punches
To tolerate or endure through unexpected and difficult things that you may encounter from time to time.

Talk The Talk
Supporting what you say, not just with words, but also through action or evidence.


The Apple Doesn’t Fall Far From The Tree
This is said about a child who has similar qualities or talents to those of their parents.


The Early Bird Gets The Worm
When certain opportunities present themselves, arriving first or early can increase one’s chances of success.


The Old One-Two
1. A fast combination of punches.  2. A strong combination of two people or things.


The Plot Thickens
A situation that has gotten way more serious or interesting due to recent complexities or developments.


The Quick Brown Fox Jumps Over The Lazy Dog
This is a pangram in English, which is a sentence that uses all 26 letters of the alphabet.


The Straw That Broke The Camel’s Back
A series of occurrences that eventually lead to one final thing that causes a person to lose their patience.


There’s No I In Team
To not work alone, but rather, together with others in order to achieve a certain goal.


Throw In The Towel
This phrase means to give up; to surrender.


Too Many Cook In The Kitchen
When too many people work on something, it may cause problems and the final product can be hurt as a result.




Top Drawer
High quality, exceptional; something that’s very valuable.


Tug Of War
It can refer to the popular rope pulling game or it can mean a struggle for authority.


Two Down, One To Go
The “two” in this phrase refers to things that have been completed, while the “one” refers to that which has yet to be finished.


Two Peas In a Pod
Two people who are similar in terms of appearance or in what they like to do; alike.


Ugly Duckling
One who may seem plain at first in appearance or capability, but later turns out to be beautiful or great.


Under The Weather
Not feeling well in terms of health or mood.


Under Your Nose
Missing something that should be really obvious.


Up In Arms
Angry; a person being roused to the point where they are ready to fight.

Wake Up Call
An occurrence of sorts that brings a problem to somebody’s attention and they realize it needs fixing.


Watched Pot Never Boils – A
Focusing on the things that we are waiting for can make it feel like time is passing by really slowly.


What Goes Up Must Come Down
Things that go up must eventually return to the earth due to gravity.


What Am I, Chopped Liver?
A rhetorical question used by a person who feels they are being given less consideration than someone else.


When The Rubber Hits The Road
When a theory or idea is put to the test.


Wild Goose Chase
Futilely pursuing something that will never be attainable.


Wouldn’t Harm a Fly
Nonviolent; someone who is mild or gentle.


Yada Yada
A way to signify that what is being said is predictable or boring.


You Can’t Have Your Cake And Eat It Too
Sometimes, there may be two desirable things that someone wants, but these two things contradict each other, so the person can only pick one. It’s akin to saying “you can’t have it both ways.”


You Can’t Judge a Book By It’s Cover
Don’t judge someone or something only by their outward appearance.


You Can’t Teach an Old Dog New Tricks
It can be challenging to teach a person something new, especially if they are set in doing things a certain way.

